#summary How to use DeNovoGUI from the command line .
#labels Featured

=DeNovoGUI Command Line Interface=

The command line interface to DeNovoGUI, referred to as DeNovoCLI, makes is easy to use DeNovoGUI in a command line setting, for example as part of a bigger software pipeline.

DeNovoCLI takes a set of spectrum files as input and uses the [http://proteomics.ucsd.edu/Software/PepNovo.html PepNovo+] algorithm to de novo sequence each spectrum according to the given search parameters.

Note that the spectra must be provided in the Mascot Generic File (mgf) format.

The search parameters can be provided as a serialized instance of the [http://compomics-utilities.googlecode.com compomics utilities] com.compomics.util.experiment.identification.SearchParameters object or to set individually using the command line options.

*General command line:*

{{{
java -cp DeNovoGUI-X.Y.Z.jar com.compomics.denovogui.cmd.DeNovoCLI [parameters]
}}}

*Mandatory parameters:*

{{{
-spectrum_files	        Spectrum files (mgf format), comma separated list or an entire folder.
                        Example: "file1.mgf, file2.mgf".

-output_folder		The output folder.
}}}

*Optional common parameters:*

{{{
-search_params	        Serialized com.compomics.util.experiment.identification.SearchParameters 
                        object created by SearchGUI.

-prec_tol		Precursor ion mass tolerance, default is '10' (ppm).

-frag_tol		Fragment ion mass tolerance in Da, default is '0.5' (Da).

-enzyme		        Enzyme, default is 'Trypsin'. Available enzymes
                        are listed in the GUI. (Names are case sensitive.)

-fixed_mods		The fixed (lower case) modifications as a comma separated list. 
                        Modifications are configured in the GUI.
                        Example: -fixed_mods "carbamidomethyl c".

-variable_mods	        The variable (lower case) modifications as a comma separated list. 
                        The modifications are configured in the GUI.
                        Example: -variable_mods "oxidation of m, phosphorylation of s".

-pep_novo_folder        The folder where PepNovo+ is installed, defaults                        
                        to the version provided with DeNovoGUI.
}}}


*Optional advanced parameters:*

{{{
-de_novo_count          Number of de novo solutions per spectrum. Default: '10'. Max: '20'.

-estimate_charge        Estimate the precursor charge, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-correct_precursor      Correct the precursor mass, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-discard_spectra        Discard low quality spectra, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-fragmentation_model    The PepNovo+ fragmentation model. Default is 'CID_IT_TRYP'.

-generate_blast         Generate a BLAST query, 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-pep_novo_folder        The folder where PepNovo+ is installed. 
                        Defaults to the version provided with DeNovoGUI.

-threads                The number of threads to use for the processing. 
                        Default is the number of cores available.
}}}

==Comma Separated List==

When using comma separated lists as input for the mgf files or the PTMs, please pay attention to the quotes required. Surround the full content of the option in quotes and not the individual items:

{{{
-spectrum_files "C:\..\file_1.mgf, C:\..\file_2.mgf"

-variable_mods "oxidation of m, phosphorylation of s"
}}}

==Examples==

Here is an example for Windows using a search parameters file. _X_, _Y_ and _Z_ have to be replaced by the actual version of DeNovoGUI and _my folder_ by the folder containing the desired files:

{{{
java -cp DeNovoGUI-X.Y.Z.jar com.compomics.denovogui.cmd.DeNovoCLI 
-spectrum_files "C:/my_folder" 
-output_folder "C:/my_folder/output"
-search_params "C:/my_folder/DeNovoGUI.parameters" 
}}}

And here is an example setting the search parameters directly:

{{{
java -cp DeNovoGUI-X.Y.Z.jar com.compomics.denovogui.cmd.DeNovoCLI 
-spectrum_files "C:/my_folder" 
-output_folder "C:/my_folder/output"
-prec_tol 5 -frag_tol 0.7 -enzyme Trypsin
-variable_mods "oxidation of m, phosphorylation of s"
}}}

_Note that for readability the commands are here split over multiple lines. When used the commands should of course be single lines._

== Help==

If you experience any problems with the command line or have any suggestion please contact us via the [https://groups.google.com/group/peptide-shaker PeptideShaker mailing list].