#summary Short summary of changes for each version of DeNovoGUI.
#labels Featured

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.4.0 (April 30. 2014):*

 * NEW FEATURE: Added Linux support for DirecTag (32 and 64 bit).
 * NEW FEATURE: Added 32 bit and 64 bit versions of DirecTag for Windows.
 * NEW FEATURE: DirecTag is now disabled on Mac (as a Mac build is not yet available).
 * NEW FEATURE: PepNovo is now disabled on Linux 32 bit (as a 32 bit build is not available).
 * NEW FEATURE: Added new command line options for path configuration.

 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added the possibility for the user to turn the auto update on and off.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: The Bug Report dialog now refers to the DeNovoGUI Google Group.

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a typo in the reference to the CLI wiki page.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the Job class where the process was always referred to as PepNovo.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the algorithm location dialog where the browse button for DirecTag referred incorrectly to PepNovo.
 * BUG FIX: If either the PepNovo or DirecTag commands fails the whole process is now canceled. (Instead of opening empty results as before.)

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.26.28. 

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.3.7 (April 10. 2014):*

 * NEW FEATURE: The DeNovoGUI report is now saved in the output folder.

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the peptide matches export filters.

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.3.6 (April 8. 2014):*

 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added score and number of matches filter for all export options.

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.3.5 (April 3. 2014):*

 * BUG FIX: Enabled the export for DirecTag results.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed an issue with the creation of terminal PTMs without specific targets.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.26.9. 

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.3.4 (April 1. 2014):*

 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Implemented memory setting and restart by the user.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added catching of the out of memory error when mapping to FASTA file.

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the protein iterator where the last protein was not included.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.26.4. 

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.3.3 (March 30. 2014):*

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug that made it impossible to load DirecTag results without at least one fixed modification in the settings.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.26.3. 

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.3.2 (March 27. 2014):*

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug where results from both algorithms was tried loaded at the end of the processing even if only one algorithm was used.

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.3.1 (March 27. 2014):*

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the method for getting all non fixed modifications, used in the export peptides feature.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.25.14. 
 
----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.3.0 (March 26. 2014):*

 * NEW FEATURE: Added support for DirecTag.
 * NEW FEATURE: Added tags to FASTA file mapping. (beta)
 * NEW FEATURE: Added the possibility to create identification parameters files from the command line.
 * NEW FEATURE: Added the option of setting the maximum number of hits to export per spectrum for the BLAST export.

 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Improved the memory handling of the object cache.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Updated the TMT modifications to support 10-plex.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Extended the export.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added the high resolution annotation option to the spectrum menu.

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the settings dialog that closed the settings dialog if the user canceled the save as dialog.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.25.12. 
 
----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.2.3 (November 27. 2013):*

 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Improved the information printed to the waiting dialog during the sequencing.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: The possible mass deltas for the manual de novo sequencing are now set in correspondence with the PTMs used for the sequencing.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added tooltips with the maximum fragment ion and precursor mass tolerances to the Settings Dialog.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: The default PTMs selection in the Search Settings Dialog is now only shown if All Modifications is selected.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Removed the Search Settings saving from the Settings Dialog.

 * BUG FIX: The PepNovo PTM mapping is now stored in the search parameters.
 * BUG FIX: Made sure that only valid search parameter files can be selected.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed GUI bugs in the progress dialogs when exporting to file.
 * BUG FIX: The exception handler now refers to DeNovoGUI web pages (and not PeptideShaker as before).

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.18.10. 

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.2.2 (October 8. 2013):*

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug where the startup log was always empty.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the wrapper used to start the tool.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.15.23. 

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.2.1 (October 5. 2013):*

 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the reporter ion masses shown in the Modification Details dialog.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.15.20. 

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.2.0 (September 27. 2013):*

 * NEW FEATURE: Added a "one-click BLAST" option to the De Novo Peptides table.
 * NEW FEATURE: Added BLAST compatible matches export.
 * NEW FEATURE: Added a spectrum annotation dialog to the results dialog where the user can select the annotation accuracy and level.
 * NEW FEATURE: Added an edit modifications edit option to the settings dialog.

 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added the spectrum details in front of every PSM in the default export.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Updated the help text regarding the terminal mass gaps and how they affect the peak annotation.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Hid the enzyme and model settings from the settings dialog.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added a new default precursor tolerance of 0.5 Dalton.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Fixed terminal PTMs are now treated as variable PTMs.

 * BUG FIX: Reporter ions are now displayed in the spectrum annotation.
 * BUG FIX: The same fragment ion accuracy is now used in the manual and automatic de novo sequencing and peak annotation.
 * BUG FIX: Removed the spectrum help details referring to the plots that are not used.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.15.6. 

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.1.0 (August 11. 2013):*

 * NEW FEATURE: Added a first version of a peptide sequence search feature in the results frame. (beta)

 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Improved the way the N and C terminal gaps are shown in sequence column in the de novo matches table.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added the version number to the results frame title bar.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Made sure that the results frame is shown in the middle of the screen if minimized.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added better error handling when re-loading de novo results and the wrong mgf file is selected.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Fixed some issues with the size of the help dialogs.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Added a progress dialog if the reference dataset has to be re-indexed.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Fixed PTMs can now be shown in the GUI (both for the table and the spectrum).

 * BUG FIX: Terminal PTMs are now handled correctly.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed PTMs are now handled correctly.
 * BUG FIX: Added support for the N and C terminal gaps in the spectrum annotation.
 * BUG FIX: Set the correct max values for the spinners in the Settings dialog.
 * BUG FIX: The Settings dialog now resizes correctly.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed bugs in the peptide m/z values in the peptide table.

 * LIBRARY UPDATE: Updated utilities to version 3.14.21.

----

*Changes in DeNovoGUI 1.0.0 (July 16. 2013):*

 * The first public release of DeNovoGUI.

----